Secure coding is software development that defends against active security threats. Although many of the existing secure coding best practices are specific to programming languages and domains, there is also language- and domain‐neutral knowledge to be obtained by software developers.

The project is focused on best practices covering secure coding in C/C++. Providing skills necessary to identify and prevent software vulnerabilities found in insecure code. The objective of this project is to give a solid foundation in developing secure software and creating policies and standards to make the principles predictable and repeatable.


Specific to this project, when working through each section. I had not been familiar with the function XOR, by reviewing the resource of https://www.programmingalgorithms.com/algorithm/xor-encryption/cpp. I began to understand the structure necessary for the XOR function to work in the code given for this assignment. By adding (^ key[i % keyLen];) this allowed the encryption to use a key at each value for “password”, (const std::string key = "password"). I then followed sources to read the inputextfile, I struggled to access the file even though in code it stated to return text_file. I later found that for the file to be viewed it needed to be embedded into the project folder created in Microsoft Visual Studio source/repo/project_name. This corrected the issue, and the last step was to add code to save the file for encryption and decryption to take place.

Read File: inputdatafile.txt - Encrypted To: encrypteddatafile.txt - Decrypted To: decrytpteddatafile.txt